specs/001-quick-git-plugin/quickstart.md, before:

# Quick-Git Plugin Quickstart Guide

> Get the Quick-Git Noctalia plugin running in 5 minutes

---

## Prerequisites

- **Noctalia** 3.0.0+ installed and running
- **git** installed and configured
- **secret-tool** (libsecret) for secure token storage
- **curl** for HTTP requests

Check prerequisites:
```bash
noctalia --version  # Should show 3.0.0+
git --version
which secret-tool
which curl
```

---

## Installation

### Option 1: From Plugin Registry (Recommended)

```bash
noctalia plugin install quick-git
```

### Option 2: Manual Installation

```bash
# Clone to Noctalia plugins directory
git clone https://github.com/your-username/quick-git \
  ~/.config/noctalia/plugins/quick-git

# Restart Noctalia to load plugin
noctalia reload
```

---

## First Run

1. **Enable the plugin** in Noctalia settings
2. **Look for the git icon** in your bar
3. **Click the icon** to open the Quick-Git panel

---

## GitHub Authentication

To use GitHub features (issues, remote status):

1. Click the **GitHub octopus icon** in the panel
2. Copy the **8-character code** displayed
3. Visit **github.com/login/device** in your browser
4. Enter the code and authorize Quick-Git
5. Panel shows "Connected as @yourusername"

**Scopes requested**: `repo` (repository access), `user` (profile info)

---

## Basic Usage

### Check Repository Status

The bar widget shows your current repo state:
- ✓ **Clean** - No uncommitted changes
- ◐ **Modified** - Unstaged changes present
- ▲ **Ahead** - Commits ready to push

Hover for tooltip: branch name, file count, ahead/behind.

### Stage and Commit

1. Open panel → **Commits** view (default)
2. See files grouped: **Staged** / **Unstaged** / **Untracked**
3. Click **[+]** to stage a file
4. Enter commit message
5. Click **[Commit]**

### View Diffs

Click **[▼]** on any file to expand inline diff:
- Green lines = additions
- Red lines = deletions

### Manage Issues

1. Authenticate with GitHub (see above)
2. Toggle to **Issues** view
3. Click **[▼]** on an issue to expand
4. Add comments, close, or create new issues

---

## Settings

Access settings from the **gear icon** in the panel:

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Colorblind Mode | Enable shape+label indicators |
| Palette | Choose accessibility color scheme |
| Refresh Interval | How often to check for changes |
| Default View | Issues or Commits |

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

Configure in Noctalia settings:

| Action | Suggested Binding |
|--------|-------------------|
| Toggle panel | `Super+G` |
| Refresh | `Ctrl+R` (when panel focused) |
| Commit | `Ctrl+Enter` (with message focused) |

---

## File Structure

```
~/.config/noctalia/plugins/quick-git/
├── manifest.json       # Plugin metadata
├── Main.qml            # Background services
├── BarWidget.qml       # Status indicator
├── Panel.qml           # Slide-down panel
├── Settings.qml        # Preferences UI
├── Components/         # Reusable UI components
├── Services/           # GitService, GitHubService, SettingsService
└── Assets/             # Icons
```

Settings stored at: `~/.local/state/quickshell/quick-git/settings.json`

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Not a git repository"

The current directory isn't a git repo. Use the repo dropdown to select a valid repository.

### "Session expired"

GitHub token needs refresh. Click the auth icon to re-authenticate.

### "Rate limited"

GitHub API limit reached. Wait for the reset time shown in the error message.

### Panel won't open

1. Check Noctalia logs: `journalctl --user -u noctalia`
2. Verify plugin is enabled in Noctalia settings
3. Try `noctalia reload`

### Token not saving

Ensure `secret-tool` and GNOME Keyring (or compatible) are working:
```bash
echo "test" | secret-tool store --label="Test" app test-app
secret-tool lookup app test-app
```

---

## Development

### Run with debug logging

```bash
QT_LOGGING_RULES="quick-git.*=true" noctalia
```

### Live reload

Quickshell auto-reloads QML files on save. Make changes and see them immediately.

### Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

---

## Links

- [Feature Specification](./spec.md)
- [Implementation Plan](./plan.md)
- [Data Model](./data-model.md)
- [API Contracts](./contracts/)
- [Quickshell Documentation](https://quickshell.org/docs/)
- [Noctalia Plugin Guide](https://docs.noctalia.dev/plugins)

Commit message:

Enhance Quick-Git plugin documentation and finalize task checklist. Updated keyboard shortcuts section in quickstart.md for clarity and added tips for usage. Marked all tasks as complete in tasks.md, indicating readiness for the next development phase.

specs/001-quick-git-plugin/quickstart.md, after:

# Quick-Git Plugin Quickstart Guide

> Get the Quick-Git Noctalia plugin running in 5 minutes

---

## Prerequisites

- **Noctalia** 3.0.0+ installed and running
- **git** installed and configured
- **secret-tool** (libsecret) for secure token storage
- **curl** for HTTP requests

Check prerequisites:
```bash
noctalia --version  # Should show 3.0.0+
git --version
which secret-tool
which curl
```

---

## Installation

### Option 1: From Plugin Registry (Recommended)

```bash
noctalia plugin install quick-git
```

### Option 2: Manual Installation

```bash
# Clone to Noctalia plugins directory
git clone https://github.com/your-username/quick-git \
  ~/.config/noctalia/plugins/quick-git

# Restart Noctalia to load plugin
noctalia reload
```

---

## First Run

1. **Enable the plugin** in Noctalia settings
2. **Look for the git icon** in your bar
3. **Click the icon** to open the Quick-Git panel

---

## GitHub Authentication

To use GitHub features (issues, remote status):

1. Click the **GitHub octopus icon** in the panel
2. Copy the **8-character code** displayed
3. Visit **github.com/login/device** in your browser
4. Enter the code and authorize Quick-Git
5. Panel shows "Connected as @yourusername"

**Scopes requested**: `repo` (repository access), `user` (profile info)

---

## Basic Usage

### Check Repository Status

The bar widget shows your current repo state:
- ✓ **Clean** - No uncommitted changes
- ◐ **Modified** - Unstaged changes present
- ▲ **Ahead** - Commits ready to push

Hover for tooltip: branch name, file count, ahead/behind.

### Stage and Commit

1. Open panel → **Commits** view (default)
2. See files grouped: **Staged** / **Unstaged** / **Untracked**
3. Click **[+]** to stage a file
4. Enter commit message
5. Click **[Commit]**

### View Diffs

Click **[▼]** on any file to expand inline diff:
- Green lines = additions
- Red lines = deletions

### Manage Issues

1. Authenticate with GitHub (see above)
2. Toggle to **Issues** view
3. Click **[▼]** on an issue to expand
4. Add comments, close, or create new issues

---

## Settings

Access settings from the **gear icon** in the panel:

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Colorblind Mode | Enable shape+label indicators |
| Palette | Choose accessibility color scheme |
| Refresh Interval | How often to check for changes |
| Default View | Issues or Commits |

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

### Global Shortcuts (Configure in Noctalia settings)

| Shortcut | Action | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| `Super+G` | Toggle panel | Default keybind (configurable) |

### Panel Shortcuts (when Quick-Git panel is open)

| Shortcut | Action | Context |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `Escape` | Close panel/dialog | Closes the Quick-Git panel or any open dialog |
| `Ctrl+R` | Refresh status | Reloads git status from repository |
| `Ctrl+Enter` | Submit commit | When commit message input is focused |

### Tips

- **Super+G** is the suggested default but can be changed in Noctalia's keybinding settings
- **Ctrl+Enter** allows quick commits without clicking the button
- **Escape** works to close dialogs first, then the main panel if pressed again

---

## File Structure

```
~/.config/noctalia/plugins/quick-git/
├── manifest.json       # Plugin metadata
├── Main.qml            # Background services
├── BarWidget.qml       # Status indicator
├── Panel.qml           # Slide-down panel
├── Settings.qml        # Preferences UI
├── Components/         # Reusable UI components
├── Services/           # GitService, GitHubService, SettingsService
└── Assets/             # Icons
```

Settings stored at: `~/.local/state/quickshell/quick-git/settings.json`

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Not a git repository"

The current directory isn't a git repo. Use the repo dropdown to select a valid repository.

### "Session expired"

GitHub token needs refresh. Click the auth icon to re-authenticate.

### "Rate limited"

GitHub API limit reached. Wait for the reset time shown in the error message.

### Panel won't open

1. Check Noctalia logs: `journalctl --user -u noctalia`
2. Verify plugin is enabled in Noctalia settings
3. Try `noctalia reload`

### Token not saving

Ensure `secret-tool` and GNOME Keyring (or compatible) are working:
```bash
echo "test" | secret-tool store --label="Test" app test-app
secret-tool lookup app test-app
```

---

## Development

### Run with debug logging

```bash
QT_LOGGING_RULES="quick-git.*=true" noctalia
```

### Live reload

Quickshell auto-reloads QML files on save. Make changes and see them immediately.

### Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

---

## Links

- [Feature Specification](./spec.md)
- [Implementation Plan](./plan.md)
- [Data Model](./data-model.md)
- [API Contracts](./contracts/)
- [Quickshell Documentation](https://quickshell.org/docs/)
- [Noctalia Plugin Guide](https://docs.noctalia.dev/plugins)
